to introduce the
Information I thought I'd show you this here and this is a blueprint now this one happens to be and I got it from
Friend of mine. This was part of the blueprint for building world headquarters
So this is a connected with the offices services building and that's the blueprint now what I did learn
is that
You also have and I don't in that business a lot of them are
White background now in webster's dictionary did capture that fact very nicely
Here's what it says
defining a blueprint that word a
photographic print in white on a bright blue ground or
blue on a white ground
It used especially for copying maps
Mechanical drawings and architect plans
particularly thinking of the
architect plans and I couldn't know but think about
Proverbs chapter 8 and we see there Jesus being referred to as the master
worker and Jehovah really the architect he's the creator now Jesus was a spiritual
Success with that because he followed the architect's
Direction so that's something want you to keep in mind and we'll get to the blueprint as I'm calling it in a moment
The other definition and webster's dictionary I thought was pertinent
Something resembling a blueprint as in serving as a model or providing guidance
And I'd love that one little expression that appeared after that
especially a
Detailed plan or program
of action
So that's how I'm borrowing that word a blueprint with the
These following thoughts in Peter's second letter so if you could we're gonna show you
What I'm referring anyway to is a blueprint for spiritual success
So second Peter
chapter one
There's nine things you'll notice here that we're going to emphasize
In verses five through seven
So Peter writes for this very reason put forth all earnest effort
To supply to your faith virtue
To your virtue knowledge
To your knowledge self-control
To your self-control endurance
To your endurance godly devotion
To either godly devotion
brotherly affection
To your brotherly affection
love
So there's the blueprint
So there's nine
Thoughts that are expressed here
Obviously, there's a lot of other things that you have gave us the whole Bible
But this is just for a nice memory aid a good blueprint for you to continue as spiritual
Successful people now the first one there is earnest effort
That's basic now obviously and we commend you for it. You've shown earnest effort
Just to come this far to be invited to Gilead and to qualify for that and during your class
And going out in the ministry and the weekends earnest effort. So you have to continue that
You're not born with earnest effort
That's a decision you make. I have to make the same decision
We're going to put forth earnest effort starts there
no effort no success
So each individual has to decide I'm putting forth the earnest effort here and I'm going to be a success
And then you get the earnest effort and then this is what's involved here
I have the effort to have faith
now
Time doesn't allow to go to detail on each one of these but faith obviously is essential now notice and go to Hebrews chapter 12 or excuse me 11
Hebrews 11 and
The absolute necessity of faith to be a spiritual success here in chapter 11 verse 1
Faith is the assured expectation of what is hope for the evident demonstration of realities that are not seen
So it goes down to emphasize that the
Need for it now essential it is in verse 6 same chapter
More over without faith it is impossible
To please God well
For whoever approaches God must believe that he is
And that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him
That's pretty clear
Not easy to
Misunderstand what's being said here you have to keep your assured expectation of what
You've been hoping for
That's part of being a spiritual success
It can't weaken and how clear does it get
You can't please God and I can't please God without faith
That's serious business and none of us want to
go the remainder of the time not pleasing our heavenly Father Jehovah God and
Appreciate that in fact right before he went into that in the previous what we call chapter 10
Notice verse 38 and verse 39
Of
Chapter 10, but my righteous one will live by reason of faith and if he shrinks back
I have no pleasure in him
Now we are not the sword who shrank back to destruction
But the sword who have faith for the preserving of our lives or
We're applying it now. You're going to be a spiritual success in him
Everlasting life, but to have to have faith
Crucial
now
Next he mentions virtue
now that has to do with moral
excellence
So all of you have that somewhere single others if you're married you have
virtue that moral excellence and when you're morally excellent especially in these
Last days in this world, Bordia stand out
And what does that do? It's not that you're trying to stand out your moral excellence your virtuous behavior glorifies God
And Jehovah appreciates that he wants us
To succeed at glorifying him bring attention to it is we don't joke about
immorality
You know the mean the comedians are full of it
We're morally excellent. We don't have a thing to do with the spirit of the world
with that
now
Next he mentions here
knowledge
knowledge well
Obviously
You appreciate knowledge now you you had a lot of knowledge for you got to
The gillie, but how many people and included in this organization have a few months
Of studying like you have
It is incredible, isn't I mean very hard for you to explain to others then you were reading the Bible before you got here
Don't raise your hand if you
Didn't quite get there God forgives you
Pins on circumstances, but once you were here and we love our
Instructors here with the theocratic schools of teaching committee that you you have a whole lot more knowledge than
You did a few months ago. Don't you agree? It's it's it's just wonderful now
Part of you succeeding is don't be satisfied with this
Downpour of all his knowledge. Mm-hmm. Just take it as
valuable to keep going and get some new ideas on
How to research some things and go with it
But if you're going to be a spiritual success, you've got to keep
Taking in the knowledge
That's very clear very simple
And Jehovah will bless your intake
Of knowledge. There's no end to it
It's wonderful, you know, it's it's always amazed
Yeah, if I said the more I learn
The more I realize how little I know
Now that's not just a
Statement that's a fact and imagine what Jehovah. It's it's just but in that great
It'll go on preternity
Taking the knowledge
If you do it now you'll be able to do it forever
What a honor
Heavenly Father and then
He mentions here
To your knowledge self-control now that's an aspect of the footage of the spirit that you're well aware of
I have to have it you have to have if you're going to succeed spiritually and gain everlasting life
You need
self-control and you have to pray about it
Especially in these last days in fact notice first Corinthians
chapter 10 and we'll come back here to
Peter right after
so
Here in verse 12
First Corinthians 10 12
So let the one who thinks
He is standing beware that he does not
fall
so
Our thinking
We need to pray for self-control with it because the devil and his wicked
System as well as he and his demons are always trying to affect our thinking
So in this case here you think you're standing guess what
You're ball ready to fall
It's all by say Jehovah, please give me self-control or you see when the devil might try some sort of temptation or whatever some thing you face
Give me self-control
I want to stand firm for you
Now you're okay
The Holy Spirit will do that you'll have that
self-control necessary to oppose the devil and his wicked effort to
Make it so that we don't succeed. So it's just crucial
Now next he mentions
With self-control the blueprint goes on endurance
Ah
Why we could spend considerable time just talking about endurance
It's absolutely
Essential some of the things you've endured already and you dedicated life and
As I told the brothers in the
Coordinators committee office, you know when we're facing these disasters and all these things and I've been telling them
for some time now cheer up
It's going to get worse
And so we keep a sense of humor with it, but uh
That's a fact
What what we're experiencing right now in this global pandemic? I was telling the branch class yesterday
I didn't bother me we've been waiting for this
We knew things like this were going to happen Christ Jesus is prepared us
Where's the shock now you got to think and Jehovah
Direct us with how to deal with these things, but
We endure and that's why Jesus you remember there's a Matthew 24 and we'll come back here
Matthew chapter 24
And
We've been so well equipped. It's all here
So we can be a success
Verse 13 Matthew 24
But the one who has endured to the end not who showed some endurance
No
The one who has endured to the end
Will be saved
So that's what we beg Jehovah help us that's part of the blueprint. We're going to endure
to the end
That's it
Whatever we have to face with Jehovah's support
We're going to succeed
now after
endurance he mentions
godly devotion
Now watch towers come in and on this uh years past and it's a beautiful
Thing to keep in mind and why this is so crucial to a spiritual success is and it's captured nicely here in the
Revised translation godly devotion
So
The thinking there and to try to convey what was coming across here for all of us is
You're devoted or undevoted to Jehovah personally
That's this attachment to him personally
So some of you are married couples
Well you're made you want your mate to be attached
To your god that you worship together
That's what is going to make a success
godly devotion
Personally attached to Jehovah it affects every
aspect of our life
We're attached to him it's personal it's it's just
Something special and everyone should have that feeling not just
devotion
No attachment to him
We love him we're whole soul you get exclusive devotion
Right now I'm just thinking about thinking of him and and how you can't see him, but I got goose bumps on
My back
Thinking about the love for him the attachment to him and how nice when if you are married your mate
Has that
Boy you're gonna succeed
devotion
To him personally
for all that he
Has shown and will show it's just very personal
now next
He attaches after godly devotion
brotherly affection
now
brotherly
affection
so
When you think about that now and
Appreciate it for the new mayor's comments and I saw this yesterday with you for a couple of lectures and then
yesterday saw some of you after your
last class and or the new mayor mentioned how
You enjoy each other's company. Well what he was describing was your brotherly affection for each other
It's it's real
It's genuine you have that
brotherly affection that should be true and all the congregations
You've displayed it well to succeed you got to continue to do that
So here's something for you to think about though because
Commendably you've done them well with that. Sure you're going to take it back with you. Does need for
godly devotion
I you're gonna do that
counting on it
However, here's a thought for you from first Thessalonians chapter four
First Thessalonians
chapter four just something to consider
You soon to be graduates and take it with you
To your assignments
First Thessalonians chapter four verse nine and then here
The 10th verse is well
However
Concerning brotherly love
You do not need us to write to you
For you yourselves are taught by god
To love one another
In fact
You are doing so
Toward all the brothers and all of Macedonia. Now notice this. This is a thought provoking
Pointing but we urge you brothers
To go on doing so in fuller measure
oh
So that applies to you too
You've shown it during your class
But want you to think about it from time to time so you're a spiritual success
You've got to ask yourself individually particularly and maybe as a couple if you wish
Are you doing it in fuller measure
Oh
Lot to think about
Seeing as things get more and more critical
Good point
We need this godly
Expression here of our brotherly affection. We love our brothers
We forgive each other
But we have this and it's got to get fuller
And we know you're going to do that you'll think about it
Just examine yourself from time to time with this blueprint
Are you showing brotherly affection in fuller measure and you might get back
You know we're all different
I don't know your
circumstances obviously god does and christ jesus does but
Uh some might say boy
She's just filled with brotherly affection
Amazing
I don't remember that about her
before
Or he I'm known so the sisters don't want you
If you don't like I'm picking on you
Same applies to the brothers but love brotherly affection
Fuller measure
Something to think about from time to time now back here in Peter's
Second letter
This is the last
Thought that he puts into the blueprint
To your godly devotion brotherly affection and then notice to your brotherly affection love
So that has reference to agape
So brotherly affection is a unique
Uh
Expression on brothers that love for them, but this is a
Principled love as you know
So it's governed by principle and that's the kind of love we need to keep on preaching
Because uh people are going to get more and more
Distinct with their contempt for us. It's it's growing in most
Countries while the agape is going to move is to keep on going
No matter how they mistreat us and what they say or do
We're going to show love
Until Jehovah says that's it
No more preaching and think about our time right now because of this
Threat there in these national security problems in different countries
Metropolitan preaching in many countries. It's not happening
Hmm
Door to doors and problems of
Memorial campaign is
Different things going on
Jehovah's given a spirit to the governing body to try to
Do the right thing respect Caesar and obey him as a ruler
Uh, he makes you think what what are the inactive
Or others that have known about the two. What are they thinking?
Well
We hope the best for him, but you better move
This is the serious business
Our agape love is going to help us to try to reach out to him
Uh, now is the time for action because the day's coming
That's it
So once that great tribulation breaks out
Can help
So
Those are the nine
Parts of the blueprint for spiritual success
Now
Notice the thought here and this is what we want to conclude with verse eight
For if these things exist in you now notice
and overflow
They will prevent you from being either inactive
Or unfruitful regarding the accurate knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ
So there it is
So just exhorting you
precious ones soon to graduate
Uh, don't let it just exist
The blueprint let all of this overflow
And you are guaranteed to be a spiritual success